Git Essentials: CH_7 Undo changes.

CH 7: Unstage files.

  - Several changes have been made across a project folder (a price change in this case)
  - checking "git stauts" shows the changes in the specific files.
  - fof the sake of the exercise, I will add 'some' of the changes to the staging area. cmd: "git add <file>*" using the asterisk '*' is a 'wildcard' char. and this will add any file with the typed file name "tours" in this case: cmd: "git add tours*" which adds in this case 2 dir's

  - agian, when the the 'add' is made, the user is prompted to use a command "git restore --staged <file..>" to unstage. or "git reset HEAD <file..>" is another version of this process. (see below for further explanation)

  - If I need to restore all the chages made in error or to revert in this case to a previous pricing scheme, we can again use cmd: "git checkout -- ." to restore all the files/dir's to their pervious versions. The period '.' at the end of the cmd sequence, takes the checkout resstore to all the file in the staging dir. 

  "git restore --staged hello.c
  or you can restore both the index and the working tree (this the same as using git-checkout)"

  and

  "git-reset is about updating your branch, moving the tip in order to add or remove commits from the branch. This operation changes the commit history.
  git reset can also be used to restore the index, overlapping with git restore."



  Further Notes: from 'StackOverflow'
  As reset, restore and revert documentation states:

There are three commands with similar names: git reset, git restore and git revert.

git-revert is about making a new commit that reverts the changes made by other commits.
git-restore is about restoring files in the working tree from either the index or another commit.
This command does not update your branch.
The command can also be used to restore files in the index from another commit.
git-reset is about updating your branch, moving the tip in order to add or remove commits from the branch. This operation changes the commit history.
git reset can also be used to restore the index, overlapping with git restore.
So:

To restore a file in the index to match the version in HEAD (this is the same as using git-reset)

git restore --staged hello.c
or you can restore both the index and the working tree (this the same as using git-checkout)

git restore --source=HEAD --staged --worktree hello.c
or the short form which is more practical but less readable:

git restore -s@ -SW hello.c
