Chapter Quiz: Questions and Answers
CH_1
CH_2
CH_3
CH_4

CH_5

  1. What is the difference between
    cmd: "git diff" and cmd: "git diff --staged"?

    Ans: cmd: "git diff", compares the changes to tworking directory files to the staging index, while cmd: "git diff --staged" compares staged files to the repository versions.

    Note: Adding the "--staged" option to the "git diff" command changes which tree's files are analyzed in the diff.

  2. Which of these methods is the best to with a file called <this_file.txt> that should NOT be deleted but should no longer be referenced when cmd: "git status" is used?

    Ans: Move <this_file.txt> from the project directory and use cmd: "git rm <this_file.txt> to remove the file."

    Note: Though it is possible to instruct Git to ignore a file in the working directory, moving a file from the directory will result in a prompt from cmd: "git status" to remove the file with cmd: "git rm", and executing this instruction means the file will no longer be tracked or noticed by Git.

  3. How is staging an edited file different from staging a new file?

    Ans: Both require cmd: "git add" to stage them.

    Note: cmd: "git add" will stage any file, regardless of the kind of change it has created in the repository.

  4. If the output of cmd: "git status" reveals that file <file1.php> is untracked, what is true about the file?

    Ans: There will be no record of further changes made on <file1.php>

  5. If a user must use cmd: "git reset HEAD tabs.js" to unstage <tabs.js>, which command likely created the need to reset the HEAD?

    Ans: cmd: "git add ."

    Note: if the <tabs.js> file must be unstaged, it was staged with either cmd: "git add ." or cmd: "git add <tabs.js>" .. This might become necessary in situations where the user does not wish to add a file to the repository or even does not want the current changes in that file to be a part of the next commit.

  6. The output of cmd: "git status" is the following text, the last line. Changes to be committed:

        (use cmd: "git reset HEAD <file>..." to unstage)

        deleted: file1.php

    Which action did NOT create this result?

      Ans: <file1.php> was deleted with an operating system tool rather that cmd: "git rm <file1.php>"

      Note: Green text denoting a file deletion means this deletion has already been staged for the next commit. If a file is deleted without using cmd: "git rm <file>", the deletion notice from cmd: "git status" will be red.

  7. How does committing an edited file affect the Git architecture's trees?

    Ans: The commit moves the file from the staging area to the repository.

    Note: Just like adding a new file to the repository, committing the file moves it from the staging index to the repository.

  8. What is the most efficient way to rename a file in the repository?

    Ans: Use cmd: "git mv" with the file name.

    Note: cmd: "git mv" is the most efficient way to both move a file to a new location and rename the file.
      - e.g. cmd: "git mv <second_file.txt secondary_file.txt>"
        - the new file name comes after the origional file name.

  9. In which situation would you use cmd: "git diff"?

      Ans: To observe specific changes from the original version of the <file>.

      Note: cmd: "git diff" displays only the lines that have changed between the two versions of the file.

  10. What does the snippet of cmd: "git diff" output below signify? Assume these output lines are contiguous.

      - background: #78b210 url("bg.png");
      + background-color: #d0f0f6

      Ans: The edit changed the line by replacing the first line with the second.

      Note: A line starting with a minus "-" sign immediately followed by a line starting with a plus "+" sign signifies a single line in the file has changed.

  CH_6

    1. What would be considered an "atomic commit"

      Ans: Adding a single link that would update on all pages globally across site.

      Note: basically, this is a single change with a narrow scope.

    2. Which it the correct order of the following actions to commit a single change to the repository?
      a 'git commit'
      b 'git diff'
      c edit the file
      d add a multi-line commit mess
      e 'git add'

      Ans: c, b, e, a, d

      Note: Steps e and a can be combined with git commit -a, but the proper order is edit, diff, stage, commit, add message.

    3. If an empty directory requires cmd: "git init" to initialize a repository, what command is required for a non-empty directory?

      Ans: cmd: "git init"

      Note: git initializes any directory to create a repository by creating the '.git' directory in the current location, considered the top level of the repository.

    4. Assuming all the files have been edited, which series of commands will result in four seperate commits?

      Ans: git add file1
           git commit
           git add file2 file3
           git commit
           git add file4 file6
           git commit
           git commit -a

      Note: The first three commits include specific files in each order to stage those files seperately. The final commit will include any edited files that have not already been commited.

    5. If viewing a diff of an edited file displays a single unchopped line, and edits are highlighted by word instead of by line, which commands were used?

      Ans: on the command line: cmd: "git diff --color-words" In the diff paginator: "-S"

      Note:Invoking diff with '--color-words' will highlight changes by word rather than by line. Using '-S' will toggle line wrapping. Word-wise changes can also be formatted with '--word-diff'.

    6. By using cmd: "git commit -am", which commandhas been made redundant.

      Ans: cmd: "git add"

      Note: Using the '-a' option with cmd: "git commit" skips the staging tree and directly commits all changes, so files do not need to be staged with git add.

    7. Which command should precede cmd: "git commit -a" to ensure no unwanted changes will be committed?

      Ans: cmd: "git status"

      Note: cmd: "git diff" and "git commit --dry-run" can also be used to ensure no unwanted changes will be committed"

      Also: If a commit was maken by mistake, cmd: "git reset" can be used. https://git-scm.com/docs/git-reset -Documentation

    8. Which command indentifies the hash you can use in cmd: "git show"?

      Ans: cmd: "git log"

      Note: Git's log will list the hash for each commit, allowing users to quickly identify the SHA for the commit the wish to view.

    9. Which command would allow a user to view the changes of a past commit with the SHA that begins <SHA>? The command should highlight word changes rather than line changes.

      Ans: cmd: "git show --color-words <SHA>"

      Note: To view a commits diff, the git 'show' command is needed. Like cmd: "git diff", it takes '--color-words' option.

    10. Why is using a sandbox repository helpful?

      Ans: A sandbox offers a space for trying out changes that might cause errors that are difficult to recover from.

      Note: The purpose of a sandbox is to serve as a space for trial and error, to learn about a behavior or to see if a series of commands will result in the needed or expected outcome.

    11. Assume a client wants four changes to their website:

      1. Change the price of the blue widget on one page, as well as the description of the widget
      2. Change the price of the green widget on a separate page
      3. Edit the About Us page to remove a paragraph
      4. Add a photo to the home page

      What is a reasonable number of atomic commits you should make?

      Ans: 5 (#1. is 2 Commits)

      Note: One commit for each task is reasonable. Four might be reasonable, but if the first task -- changing the price and description for the blue widget -- were in a single commit and the price change needed to be rolled back, the description change would also end up rolled back.

    12. What is the most likely cause if cmd: "git status" results in the output "Not a Git Repository"?

      Ans: There is no .git directory in the current directory or in the parent directories.

      Note: Git will check parent directories to confirm the user is not in a subdirectory of a repository.

    13. Which will return the diff of the next commit's parent with the commit identified by SHA a8b0cd? Assume the older commit's parent SHA is 682bcd.

      Ans: cmd: "git diff 682bcd..HEAD"

      Note: Two equivalent alternatives are cmd: "git diff 682bcd.." and cmd: "git diff a8b0cd^..HEAD". Git will use HEAD if a commit is not specified on one side of the '..', and the caret (^) refers to the SHA's parent commit.

    14. What is the result of the following command: "git commit -a"?

      Ans: Git will open a text editor for a commit message and commit all files with changes.

      Note: The 'core.editor' config value will determine which text editor is opened to accept a commit message.

    15. What commit message will appear in cmd: "git log --oneline" for a commit if no commit message was provided.

      Ans: The commit will not appear in the log.

      Note: When Git is not provided a commit message, it will abort the commit. Using the '-m' option with empty quotes has the same result as exiting a text editor without providing a message.
